[MUSIC]
>> Kyle: If we have something that
could be an arbitrary length,
our go to tool as a JavaScript
programmer is often a list, an array.
If I were to populate a list of
the URLs that I cared about handling
into a an array,
I then immediately have access to
those functional programming techniques
like map and reduce to transform,
compose, exclude things
like this on this list.
Let's try to change this list
of URLs to something else.
Maybe we should get them into
being a list of promises.
How do we transform?
We call .map.
Map is the utility that will
transform a list one to one.
And we're going to need
a predicate function,
which takes in some value and
gives us a new value back out.
Anybody think of a function like that?
How about the get file function?
See how it takes a single value in and
returns as a single value
out that's been transformed?
In this case a promise
wrapped around the value.
Great, and we also know that it's going to
go ahead make that AJAX call right away.
Not only does the transformation, but
it also takes care of making all three
of those requests in parallel for us.
We simply pass the getFile
as our predicate to map.
Excellent.
We've done the first step,
which is to call all these things.
And now we have a list of promises.
None of them have any outputs,
sequenced in with them,
and they're not sequenced together.
Well we talked about a promise chain
is just a way to take one promise and
return it from the resolved
handler of a previous promise.
That's a method of composing promises,
is to chain them together.
Well composition is handled by our
good friend the reduce function.
If I call reduce, reduce takes
two parameters, two arguments.
The first one is the predicate function,
so
we're gonna have a function here called,
let's just call it combine or maybe
we'll call it chain that sounds better.
We'll call it chain actually no,
I'm gonna call it combine.
Here I am being super indecisive and
I'll tell you why I decided
not to call it chain.
And then we are going to need an initial
value that's the second argument that gets
passed or reduce.
What's a good initial value for
a promise chain?
How about an already resolved promise.
You could manually do that,
by making a Promise here,
that receives a resolve, and
actually calls the resolve right away.
That's an immediately resolved Promise.
Doesn't wait on anything.
Turns out there's a shorthand way for
that, some of you might have looked
that up or seen that in documentation.
There's a shorthand built into the native
Promise API called Promise.resolve.
Promise.resolve creates
a resolved Promise and
if you pass anything into it it
resolves the Promise with that value.
We don't care about any value here,
we just care about the fact that,
that's a good initial value
to start chaining off of, so
that's our initial value
as a resolved Promise.
Now, combine needs to
take two arguments and
what we call those of course, I think
it's better to change the names of these
parameters to fit the context of what
you're doing so that your code makes
more sense rather than always using
accumulator and current or something.
What would the accumulator be
called most appropriately here?
I would call it chain.
That's why I didn't call
the function chain cuz I realized,
I'm gonna call my accumulator chain.
The very first time this
predicate is called,
the chain is just gonna be that already
resolved initial value Promise.
But it's going to continue
to be composed more and
more of that chain as we go along.
I'm going to call my accumulator chain and
I'm going to call my current value.
PR for
it's the Promise that I'm dealing with.
There's my two together, my chain and
my PR, now how am I going to compose them?
If we think back to what we did in
exercise three, the way you compose one
Promise to another was to return
the second one from the first.
My chain needs to have a .then
>> Kyle: That returns the pr.
And that new operation has
produced a new chained Promise.
I need to return that from my predicate.
>> Kyle: Now that code will chain all for
of the Promises together regardless
of how many Promises there are.
It will create a big
old chain of Promises.
Here's what that chain would look like.
It would look like p1.then function
return p2 .then function,
return p3 and so on.
We're part of the way there.
But what are we missing?
We're not sequencing in
the outputs into the chain.
Where are those outputs going to go?
They're going to go right here.
>> Kyle: Now we're going to have a,
if I were to write this out.
We have a Promise.resolve,
is our initial value,
.then function return p1.
And you notice I have
the immediate .then output on it.
>> Kyle: Everybody see how I'm unrolling
that, what we're doing in the reduce?
That's the visual unroll of what's
happening in our reduce, so
it looks pretty good.
One thing that's missing is we don't
have our complete statement on the end.
What is the end result of our reduction?
>> Speaker 2: A single value.
>> Kyle: A single value but what is it?
>> Kyle: It's our promise chain.
What can we do?
Just simply put another .then
on the end of our Promise, and
output to complete message.
>> Kyle: Yes?
>> Speaker 2: The order for our two
events, the returning the Promise and
doing the output.
>> Kyle: Uh-huh.
>> Speaker 2: Could be in the opposite
order like it wasn't our previous
exercise?
>> Kyle: No.
Because if we did it in the previous
order, here's what that would do.
>> Kyle: Do you spot the problem?
What are we out putting here?
An empty value from our initial Promise.
What are we outputting here?
p1.
What are we out putting here?
p2.
Who's outputting p3?
The ordering is absolutely necessary.
>> Kyle: All right.
That's a utility that we could write.
You wouldn't want to write that code
over and over again, your maps and
your reduces.
But it's a utility we could wrap that up
into a utility where we pass it an array
of values and we tell it to sequence
all these responses together and
then we could reuse that utility
all throughout our program.
>> Kyle: The value of being able to
understand our little helper friends like
map and reduce and developing
an instinct for asking questions like,
wait I'm fundamentally doing
something repetitively,
why not just put that into a list context
and let the tools repeat it for me?
Sometimes that's a for loop, but
sometimes an even higher order pattern
like a map reduce will help us out.
>> Kyle: Any questions
about exercise four?
>> Speaker 3: One thing they're asking
if you go down to all the Promise.
What would you name all of
those anonymous functions?
>> Kyle: [LAUGH] Yeah well
in our silly example here,
we don't really have a lot of context
to give us good naming for things.
If I were gonna name this anonymous
function I would say, chainP1, chainP2,
chainP3 because I would be describing
exactly what that function does no more or
less, and what it does is to chainP2,
P1, P2 and P3 into the chain.
Up here, if I wanted
to name that anonymous function
I just call it chain p, chainPr.
My instinct is to always try to find some
description for what the thing is doing,
even if it's a very generic description,
that still better than the word anonymous.
>> Kyle: Any other questions
about the exercise?
Yes.
>> Speaker 4: Do we get more
performance [INAUDIBLE] or
any performance doing this map and
then reduce of or
instead having the one we did in
the previous exercises where we and
to give the,
you the Promises separate [INAUDIBLE].
>> Kyle: And so the question is, is there
a performance difference not really.
There's no real performance difference
this is the primary thing here is
functionality.
This is a mechanism by which
we can have an arbitrarily long
list of URLs to weave together.
Whereas in the previous example,
it's fixed at three.
Because of the way that we wrote it.
It's more functionality than performance.
>> Kyle: Yeah, just as a general reminder,
if you're having problems with something
that I've typed, it is entirely
possible that sometimes I flub up and
I miss type something or whatever.
But the exercise files,
the exercise solution files have been
regularly tested they should work.
Check yourself against what
you've got in the exercise file.
That's usually a good place to
try to ferret out where there's,
there might be an issue.